*Go through these and expand/explore*
- Malware.
- Denial-of-Service (DoS) Attacks.  // as well as with DDoS attacks
- Phishing.
- Spoofing.
- Identity-Based Attacks.
- Code Injection Attacks.
- Supply Chain Attacks.
- Social Engineering Attacks.
(the above was taken from crowdstrike.com as the 12 most common types of attacks today June 2024)

APT - Advanced Persistence Threat
- Request Smuggling
- RETBleed Attack
	- *Expand on this*
- PHISHING
	- An attempt to steal sensitive information, typically in the form of usernames, passwords, credit card numbers, bank account information or other important data in order to utilise or sell the stolen information
- MITM - Man-In-The-Middle
- RCE - Remote Code Execution
	- Allows commands to be executed on the targets system. 
- Passive Reconnaissance
	- Gathering information about a company
	- To gain a better understanding of how a network structure (or system in general) is designed/set up. 
- Local File Inclusion Vulnerability/Exploit
	- Can be used in conjunction with XSS (Cross-Site Scripting) attacks
	- In php.ini config file, "allow_url_include" wrapper is set to "Off" by default, indicating that PHP does not load remote HTTP or FTP URLs to prevent remote file inclusion attacks. However, even if "allow_url_include" and "allow_url_fopen" are set to "OFF", PHP will not prevent the loading of SMB URLs. (from THM)
- Remote File Include (RFI)
	- An attack technique used to exploit "dynamic file include" mechanisms in web applications. When web applications take user input (URL, parameter value etc) and pass them into file include commands, the web application might be tricked into including remote files with malicious code. (zaproxy.org)
- Mimikatz
- Spoofing
	- 
- 
- SQL Injection Attack
	- A common attack vector that uses malicious SQL code for backend database manipulation to access information that was not intended to be displayed. 
- HTTP Request Smuggling (HRS)

- Fork Bomb
	- Also known as a Rabbit Virus)
	- Self-replicating child processes consume system resources, blocking legitimate programs from running and preventing the creation of new processes. During an attack, keyboard inputs (log out attempts for example) are ignored, essentially locking the system
- Zip Bomb
	- Also known as Decompression Bomb or Zip of Death (ZOD)
	- A malicious archive file designed to crash or render useless the program or system reading it. Often employed to disable antivirus software, in order to create an opening for more traditional malware.
	- Instead of hijacking the program's operation, creates an archive that requires an excessive amount of time, disk space or memory to unpack. 
	- Most modern AV utilities can detect a ZIP Bomb before unpacking it. 
	- The “42. zip” is one of the largest and best-known zip bombs. When unopened, it appears to hold only 42 kilobytes of data. However, after decompressing, the file can expand to 4.5 petabytes (the equivalent of 4,500 terabytes). (taken from us.norton.com)
- XML Bomb
	- A form of DOS/DDOS attack where a small piece of code is sent to overwhelm the program that parses XML files and crash the server. 
	- When an XML parser tries to process the message, nested data entities inside of it start growing exponentially and crash the server. 
	- A BILLION Laughs (lol)
- Growth Hacking
	- **RESEARCH THIS**
- XSS - Cross-Site Scripting
	- Stored XSS exploits occur when an attacker injects dangerous content into a data store that is later read and included in dynamic content. From an attacker's perspective, the optimal place to inject malicious content is in an area that is displayed to either many users or particularly interesting users. 
- CSRF (or XSRF) - Cross-Site Request Forgery
	- Also known as one-click attack or session riding
	- Type of malicious exploit of a website or web application where unauthorised commands are submitted from a user that the web application trusts.
		(from Wikipedia)
- Supply Chain Attack
	- A cyberattack that targets a trusted third-party vendor who offers services or software vital to the supply chain. 
	- Software Supply Chain Attacks inject malicious code into an application in order to infect all users of an app, while hardware supply chain attacks compromise physical components for the same purpose. 
	- Software supply chains are particularly vulnerable because modern software is not written from scratch: rather, it involves many off-the-shelf components, such as third-party APIs, open source code and proprietary code from software vendors. 
	- Today the average software project has **203 dependencies**. 
	  (above from crowdstrike.com)
  - RAT (remote Access Trojan)

- Methodologies
	- OSINT
		 - OSINT - Open-Source Intelligence
			- Being really good for searching stuff online
			- Have a look at ADSB below
			- Tracking people, tactics etc
		- ADSB - Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast
			- in regards to FlightRadar24.com 
			- Each plane has a transponder
			- https://globe.adsbexchange.com/
			- https://www.flightradar24.com/
			- https://www.vesselfinder.com/
			- Satellite Trackers:
				- https://in-the-sky.org/satmap_worldmap.php
				- https://satellitemap.space/
		- NZ is responsible for a lot of ocean
			- "Search: NZ Search and Rescue Region"
			- Have to look out for:
				- For sea-bed trawlers
				- Mayday calls
				- Pirates
				- Illegal fishing
				- Others, look em up if you want
		- Department of Defense 
				- Launched a satellite for Defcon (end of July beginning of August)
				- So people can practice hacking into it
				- Because there are a lot of systems on satellites orbiting around space which are from a long time ago, ie the 1970s, that aren't running with the same technology (hardware, software etc) as what we have now
		- Cube Satellites
			- Private companies (similar to Starlink) go up in lower-orbit and knowing the security that goes with that can help with the defensive side of things (or vice versa)
			- Kris' brother works in relation to these kinds of tech
		- WIGLE:
			- https://wigle.net/
			- All the networks. Found by Everyone
			- Google cars when running around used to scan SSID's around any given area
				- Had a database wherein they didn't have it secured with ACLs
		- Strava (fitness app)
			- They had a world map
			- https://www.strava.com/maps/global-heatmap (this is their heat map)
			- Routines and Habit generation from individuals
			- Afghanistan war
				- Whoever had Strava on their smart devices (usually the Westerners!) were allowing others to view their activity
		- GPS (Global Positioning System)
			- Three satellites
				- Consumer Grade
					- Depending the signal strength on your phone can pick up your location with a 10m difference or triangulation area
				- Military Grade
					- Distance difference of millimetres
			- Geofencing
				- Creates a virtual geographical boundary that triggers a marketing action to a mobile device when a user enters or exits that boundary.
		- Spoofing
		- Shodan Search Engine (https://www.shodan.io/)
			- Crawling, IP lookups, searching, data streaming)
			- Shodan is the world's first search engine for Internet-connected devices. Discover how Internet intelligence can help you make better decisions.
- Spam (Spiced Ham in a Can :) ) 
	- First email classicified as spam dates back to 1978
- Phishing
	- Attack vectors:
		- Phone Call
		- Text Message
		- an Email
		- Spear phishing
			- targeting a specific individual(s) or organisation seeking sensitive information
		- Whaling
			- Targeted to specific C-Level high position individuals (the chief's of a company as such - ie CEO, CTO, FO etc)
		- Smishing
			- Phishing to mobile devices targeting mobile users specifically crafted text messages
		- Vishing
			- These attacks are based on voice calls
	- Common traits of phishing emails:
		- Email spoofing: sender email name/address will masquerade as a trusted entity
		- The subject line and/or body is written with a sense of urgency, or uses certain keywords such as Invoice, Suspended, and so on
		- The email body is designed to match a trusting entity (such as Amazon, Microsoft and so on)
		- Email body is poorly formatted or written
		- The email body uses generic content, such as Dear Sir/Madam
		- Hyperlinks (oftentimes uses URL shortening services to hide its true origin)
		- A malicious attachment posing as a legitimate document
	- Hyperlinks and IP addresses should be DEFANGED
	- Defanged
		- a way of making the URL/domain or email address unclickable to avoid accidental clicks (which may result in a serious security breach)
		- ie
			- www.something.com would become www/./something/./com 
- BEC - Business Email Compromise
	- When an attacker/enemy gains control of an internal employee's account and then uses the compromised mailbox to convince other internal employees to perform unauth'd or fraudulent actions
- 
	