
- Threat Modeling
	- Identifying and communicating information about the threats that may impact a particular system or network. 
	- Enables an IT Team to understand the nature of threats, as well as how they may impact the network.
- DNSCrypt
-  SQL Injections
	- Input validation
	- Parameterized queries
	- Stored procedures
	- Implementing a WAF (Web Application Firewall) on the perimeter of the server's network



*These could go into their own section somewhere*
Windows
- Endpoint Security Fundamentals
	- Core Windows Processes
		- Examples (parent > child):
			- System
			- System > smss.exe
			- csrss.exe
			- wininit.exe
			- wininit.exe > services.exe
			- wininit.exe > services.exe > svchost.exe
			- lsass.exe
			- winlogon.exe
			- explorer.exe
		- Sysinternals (https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/)
			- Over 70+ Windows-based tools
			- File and Disk Utilities
			- Networking Utilities
				- TCPView
					- Details listings of all TCP and UDP endpoints on your system (including the local and remote addresses and state of TCP connections. )
					- Subset of the Netstat program
					- Includes TCPvcon
				- Process Utilities
					- Process Explorer
						- Consists of two sub-windows
							- The top always shows a list of the currently active processes
							- Bottom depends if in:
								- handle mode - you'll see the handles that the process selected in the top window has opened
								- DLL mode - you'll see the DLLs and memory-mapped files that the process has loaded
								- Threads Mode - shows the threads that the process has
						- Will show you the process'
							- Associated services
							- Invoked network traffic
							- Handles such as files or directories opened
							- DLLs and memory-mapped files loaded
			- Security Utilities
			- System Information
			- Miscellaneous
- Endpoint Logging and Monitoring
	- Event Logs
		- Raw data can be translated into XML using the Windows API. The events in these log files are stored in a proprietary binary format with a .evt or .evtx extension. 
		- The log files with the .evtx file extension typically reside in:
				C:\Windows>System32>winevt>Logs
		- Three main ways of accessing these event logs within a Windows sytem:
			- Event Viewer (GUI)
			- Wevtutil.exe (CLI)
			- Get-WinEvent (PowerShell)
	- Sysmon
		- A tool used to monitor and log events on Windows
		- Commonly used by enterprises as part of their monitoring and logging solutions
		- Gathers detailed and high-quality logs as well as event tracing that assists in identifying anomalies in your environment. 
		- Commonly used with a Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system or other log parsing solutions that aggregate, filter and visualize events. 
	- OSQuery
		- Open-source tool created by Facebook. With Osquery - Security Analysts, Incident Responders, and Threat Hunters can query an endpoint (or multiple endpoints) using SQL syntax. OSquery can be installed on various platforms:
			- Linux
			- MacOS
			- Windows
			- FreeBSD
		- OSQuery only allows you to query events inside the machine. But with Kolide Fleet you can query multiple endpoints from the Kolide Fleet UI instead of using OSQuery locally to query events inside the machine. 
	- Kolide Fleet
		- Similar to OSQuery in that it uses SQL queries to identify specific processes that are running on multiple machines. 
	- Wazuh
		- Open-source, freely available, and extensive EndPoint Detection and Response solution - which Security Engineers can deploy in all scales of environments. 
		- An Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) tool
			- Audit the device for common vulnerabilities
			- Monitor a device for suspicious activity
				- Unauthorised logins
				- Brute-force attacks
				- Privilege escalations
			- Visualising complex data and events into fancy and neat graphs 
			- Recording a devices normal behaviours to detect or see any anomalies (weird behaviours happening on it that don't normally happen)
- Endpoint Log Analysis
	- Event Correlation - identifies significant relationships from multiple log sources such as application logs, endpoint logs, and network logs. \
		- Identifying significant relationships between:
			- application logs
			- endpoint logs
			- network logs
		- Events from different channels via logs
	- Deals identifying significant artefacts co-existing from different log sources and connecting each related artefact. 
		- For example - a network connection log may exist in various log sources such as Sysmon logs (Event ID 3: Network Connection) and Firewall Logs. 
		- The Firewall log may provide:
			- The source and destination IP
			- Source and destination Port
			- Protocol
			- Action taken
		- Sysmon logs may give the process that invoked the connection and the user running the process. 
	- With this information we can connect the dots from the two data sources:
		- Source and Destination IP
		- Source and Destination Port
		- Action taken
		- Protocol that was used
		- Process name
		- User Account
		- Machine Name
- Baselining
	- Knowing what is expected to be normal and/or ordinary behaviour
	- A large amount of data gathering would be required to gather normal patterns of what otherwise would be
		- normal User Behaviour/Activities
		- Network traffic across infrastructure
		- Processes that would be running on a 'normal' day between all the machines owned and monitored by the organisation
	- Using the baseline as a reference, we can quickly determine irregular beviours, actions that could threaten the organisation
	- For example - normal working hours are 9-5 Mon-Fri in California, USA. Someone has logged in on a Thursday morning at 03:00 local (Cali) time, from Uzbekistan. 

